# Clean Architecture: Patterns, Practices, and Principles

An alternative to the standard 3 layer, database-centric architectures used in the past.

## What is software architecture?

It's high-level, at least higher than the code we write.

It has to do with the structure of the software.

It involves layers, which are vertical partitions of the system.

It involves components, which are horizontal partitions within each layer.

## Levels of architectural abstraction

At the top, the most abstract, we have the **system**.

Which are subdivided into 1 or more **sub-systems**.

Which are subdivided into 1 or more **layers**.

Which are subidivided into 1 or more **components**.

Which contain **classes**.

Which contain **data and methods**.

## Messy vs. Clean Architecture

Messy:
* Unnecessary complexity
* Incoherent because parts may feel unrelated
* Rigid because it resists change or difficult to evolve
* Brittle because changing a part over here may break it somewhere else
* Untestable because the architecture fights you
* Unmaintainable, ultimately because of the previous points

Clean:
* Simple, only as complex as necessary and isn't accidental
* Understandable, easy to reason about as a whole
* Flexible because it can easily adapt to changing requirements
* Emergent, the architecture evolves over the life of the project
* Testable, makes testing easier, not harder
* Maintainable

Clean architecture is designed for the inhabitants of the architecture, not for the architect or for the machine.

Avoid premature optimization.

Context is king. All decisions are a tradeoff.

